>> Hello.
I'm Georgia Shakti-Hill.
I want to welcome you
to "Living in Balance."
We are going to
take a journey home.
We are going to come
back to ourselves.
And in order to do that,
we have to really find out
how we can take care of
ourselves-- self-care,
soul care.
Come join us.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Of all the roles that we play,
sometimes the most difficult
one is just being ourselves.
And we do have lots of roles
that we are playing out there
in the world.
Some are challenging.
Many are stressful.
But we really need to know who
we are and what our center is
and how we can
care for ourselves.
There are people who
can help us with that.
And we do have with
us today Holly Bruno.
And that is her mission.
So I want to welcome you.
>> Thanks, Georgia.
>> You have an incredibly
diverse background from this.
[LAUGHS] As we had
said in your bio,
you are a recovering attorney.
>> Yes.
>> OK, had been an assistant
state's attorney general
for the state of Maine.
>> Yes.
>> A law professor, and now
you are on your soul's journey.
>> Yes.
Yes.
Well, I'm glad that you referred
to me as a recovering attorney,
because part of
being an attorney
was living a life
that-- well, first off I
would have to apologize
for being an attorney
because of the
reputation we have.
But the truth is, I became an
attorney as many people become
accountants or they
become doctors or they
become teachers, because someone
else wanted them to do that.
And I set about
becoming an attorney
because it was a challenge
that women were not allowed
to take on at that point.
This was in 1973.
And I did it for
years and years.
But I was never at
home within myself.
I always felt as if
I'm working so hard,
but I don't really feel happy.
>> Well, it didn't
bring out your best.
It wasn't really the true you.
Is that it?
>> In fact, what it brought
out was my fierce ego.
I would get in there and
be a zealous advocate.
And there's nothing
wrong with that,
but I didn't ever feel like
I was at peace inside myself.
In fact, I felt as if I were
running away from myself.
And so what it took, Georgia,
was when I turned 40,
and I was doing all
of these things,
and I was just nonstop,
working 14-hour days
and raising two
children and trying
to do everything perfectly, I
got a lump in my left breast.
And at that point,
I really felt that I
was having someone
spiritually shaking me
by the shoulder saying,
whose life is this
that you want to lead?
And that was the beginning
of my journey home.
>> Well, you know we have found
over and over that people talk
with us about, it is
often a health issue,
a very serious health
issue, that totally gets
your attention because
it's very humbling.
It has to have priority, and
so it is life changing often.
So there is a lesson that
you then did receive.
That was the gift.
>> Yes.
And you know what I'm hoping for
now, in fact, I'm praying for,
is that I don't have to
go through that again
to keep learning.
[LAUGHTER]
>> Oh, please, let
me have this lesson.
OK, yeah, OK.
>> In fact, now I'm much more
open to what that inner voice
is talking about so that when
there's something that I'm not
facing, there's something that
I'm resisting, in other words,
when I'm running away
from my own home,
that I can sit with
myself and say--
and I call myself
things like sweetie.
OK, sweetie, what is it that you
really don't want to face here?
What is it that's
difficult for you?
And to stay with that instead
of running away from that.
But the truth is, I
learned in my family,
I learned in law school,
I learned to basically
be running and keeping busy and
working and being a work addict
all the time.
And you know what's fascinating.
Work addiction is approved
of in our society.
>> Oh, yes.
>> People say, oh, it's
wonderful that you work 14-hour
days.
Isn't she a saint?
However if I were a
drug addict, people
would say, oh, you poor thing.
But they're both addictions,
and addictions take us away
from home.
>> Well, as I read about you
and this idea that so many of us
work, work, work, I thought, I
have to talk with this woman.
Because so many people that I
know that are successful women,
it's so hard not to continue
that battle all the time,
the work ethic.
And it's so hard to
slow down, to stop.
So you're bringing a message
to us how we can do that?
>> Yes.
I'm in fact asking first,
Georgia, what is it
that I'm running away from?
Why is it that I'm
afraid to stop?
And I'll just say
that what happened
for me was I discovered
I was running away
from feeling that I wasn't
really worthwhile unless I made
a certain number
of accomplishments.
I was stacking my
accomplishments
like buckwheat pancakes.
And so you know
what happened when
I decided no longer to
be a practicing attorney
and I took some time off.
I'd go to a party or I'd
meet people and they'd say,
and what is it that you do?
And I would suffer
because I didn't have
that string of fancy titles--
>> That label.
>> --after my name.
>> Yeah, the role.
>> And then I would say
something like, well,
I'm really finding out
what I'm meant to be doing.
And then people would
walk away as if--
but you know what?
Now I'm very
comfortable just being
in the process of
fulfilling my mission, which
is to help everyone, myself
first, find the way back home.
>> OK.
>> And that means not
running to work all the time.
Because when I did that,
I was running away.
>> Well, we do
have to slow down.
And like you said, it
may not be a lesson
that we can get
right the first time.
>> Yes.
>> We have to learn
it over and over.
You have a series
of recommendations
that you have made.
And we're going to
go through those
because I think these are
excellent lessons for people.
So I think our first
one is just say no.
>> Yes.
You know, it's
fascinating because I
think that came out of Nancy
Reagan's Just Say No to Drugs.
But in fact, those of
us, particularly women,
who feel like we
need to be everything
to everybody all the time have
lost the skill of saying no.
And we've been told and
taught that it's a negative
to set up a boundary.
But if I don't have a boundary,
I don't have an identity.
So in terms of just saying
no, when someone says to me,
oh, I'm sure you can handle
this, part of me wants to say,
oh, yes, I'll take
on one more thing.
But now at age 53,
I'm saying, thank you
for having the confidence
in me, and I'm not
going to do that right now.
>> When you say
set our boundaries,
that would be our guideline.
Now what is the boundary?
How do you know, when
is it time to say no?
When is it OK to say no?
Do you go to that
inner feeling about it?
Tell me about that.
>> I go to the inner feeling,
but it's almost as if I
envision a flow of a river.
And if the river keeps
flowing out to everybody else,
after a while, it
has no place else--
it's not coming from any source.
It can dry up.
You see what I'm saying?
But if I'm open to all of
these other streams coming
into the river, then
the river just flows.
So what I feel is I can
have the sense inside me
where I've gotten out of
touch with feeling peaceful,
with feeling happy.
I feel like some energy
beyond me is driving me.
And that's when I know,
that's not sacred energy.
That's just a work
addiction energy.
It's a different feeling.
>> So it is a feeling.
And I know I honor that feeling.
If I ask, do I want to do
this and I'm going to do this,
and how does the body
respond, and you actually
get a physical
reaction to something
you really don't want to do.
>> That's right.
And in fact, before I got
sick, I was so out of touch
with what my body was telling
me that I didn't pay attention.
But now I really am paying
much more attention.
There's so much wisdom in
my body to just listen to.
>> Yes, it is.
>> Have you found that?
>> Oh, yeah, absolutely.
Now the next point that you make
is distinguish between tasks.
Now what do you mean
by distinguishing?
>> Well, those of us who are
recovering perfectionists
and not just recovering
attorneys think that everything
we do has to be done perfectly,
including making my bed.
>> Yes.
>> So--
>> Oh, I know this one, right?
>> So what I need to do is to
decide that I'm not going to do
everything well.
There are some things I'm
going to do well enough.
And my bed is like--
it's not perfect, but it's made.
And for years, I would
suffer, even just
doing something like that.
But what I find is
important is for me to say,
if I'm going to do one thing
today, what is that one
thing that matters most?
And to focus on that.
And then to say, I'm not going
to accomplish the whole thing.
I'm not going to write
an article in one day.
But I'm going to spend
an hour this morning.
And at the end of
that, I'm going
to stop no matter where I am.
>> Well, that's your point
too, to schedule finite time
for tasks.
That's another point
that you've made.
So you can take
all day doing this,
or you can allot one hour.
Is that the idea?
>> Yes.
Some of us are naturally
open ended, go with the flow,
don't like to be restricted.
And so it's almost like going
into the shadow part of myself,
the lesser-known part
of myself to do this.
But, Georgia, when
I've been able to say
I'm going to stop at 10
o'clock and that's it,
I have a great sense of freedom.
Of course I have to
live with the guilt.
But you know what they say about
feel the guilt and keep going.
And I do keep going.
And then I leave it behind.
And you know what the other--
then all kinds of gifts emerge.
Like, for example, I might
have been right so much
into the middle of what
I'm writing that I don't
have the perspective on it.
So to step aside and go out for
a walk gives me perspective.
I can come back and rewrite the
whole thing in much less time
than if I spent the
whole day doing it.
You probably found that
out with your writing.
>> Yes, it is.
It really does work.
And that's what I did
as I wrote my book.
I had to be disciplined.
And there is a discipline
that is very productive.
And there is a point at which
it's no longer productive.
So if you give two
hours for this,
if that's what works
for you, that's
what you're talking about.
And we can apply
that in many aspects,
many areas of our lives.
>> Well, as you
were saying that,
Herman Melville's words were
echoing in my mind, which is,
"There is a woe that is wisdom
and a wisdom that is madness."
>> [LAUGHS] OK.
>> And there is a sense
of discipline where
I'm constantly,
constantly moving.
And that can be crazy.
And then there is a
wisdom which is saying,
I will focus on this, and
I'll allow all the light
to just be focused on this.
And that's enough.
>> Oh, yeah.
There's a lot of power
in that focusing.
You really have to
to be at your best.
Now acknowledging
the inner saboteur.
>> Oh, are you
familiar with that one?
Some of us have committees in
our heads that are telling us,
you did that wrong.
You made this mistake.
You'll never get it right.
Don't even try.
I mean, I have so many voices.
And what I've decided to do
is to just greet them and say,
I hear you, but I
don't agree with you.
And this other thing
that I started doing--
my son is a wonderful young
man, but when he was five,
he had difficulties learning--
attention deficit, which
many children have.
And instead of berating himself,
Nick would say, silly me.
And so it took me until I was
43 years old to stop saying,
oh, you're so bad at this.
You're so-- I stopped doing
that kind of negative self-talk.
I stopped the saboteur.
And I would say things
now like, OK, darling, you
made a mistake.
What did you learn from it?
Or, OK, sweetie,
you've done enough.
Just take a break.
But otherwise that
driving voice can drive us
into work addiction and
become so loud that it
replaces the quiet inner
voice that says, take it easy.
>> What we're going to do is
just take a break in just a few
minutes because there are
several things that I think we
really need to talk about.
You're going to share with
us self-care affirmations.
And these are words of
wisdom that our audience
can write down.
We're also going to
do a bibliography
of nine wonderful books
that are very powerful.
So you may want to get paper
and pencil because we need
to walk through these things.
Because we can change
our lives, can we not?
>> Yes we can, especially if
we cooperate with something
bigger.
>> Yes.
And I love taking this approach
to it because this is helpful.
And that's what you're
doing, Holly Bruno.
>> It changed my life.
>> Yes, on your journey.
So if you will stay
tuned, we will be back.
And when we come
back, we're going
to have lots of words of wisdom
that you may want to hold,
affirmations that
may change your life,
and also some books that
may be very helpful for you.
So we will be right back.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
If you're just joining
us, Holly Bruno
is sharing her wisdom
and her light with us
because she came from
being an attorney,
and she is now honoring the
spiritual side of herself,
finding her own peace,
her own way to come home.
We're going to share
with you, she suggested,
self-care affirmations.
And you really like that self
care concept, do you not?
>> I sure do.
And affirmations are so much
at the center of it for me
because I need to
hear my own voice
and listen to my own voice
being gentle with myself.
>> Yes.
>> So I-- this is
so telling, Georgia.
10 years ago, I was
working in a place
where people were encouraging me
to take a look at affirmations
and to write them.
And my first response was,
well, I'll write them,
but somebody else better
record them in their voice,
not my voice--
the idea that my voice
wouldn't be good enough.
>> And, see, your voice is the
best voice for your own psyche.
Yes.
>> And that's exactly right, but
I didn't know that at the time.
So I wrote these affirmations,
and sometimes it's
like books are
written within us.
These affirmations just emerged,
and so they were already in me.
I just needed to be
open to hearing them.
So I would bet that anyone
who writes their affirmations
will just find
that they're there.
It's a matter of
just finding them.
>> OK.
>> One of the ones that came
to me was I have the right
to dream again and
to follow my dreams.
>> Hmm, I like that.
OK.
>> You see, I wasn't
living my life,
so I wasn't even in
touch with my dream.
And without a dream,
what is my life?
>> Yeah.
>> Another very simple
one is I am enough.
[LAUGHTER]
>> Short and sweet.
>> I am enough.
And you'll be surprised how
many times I've had to use that.
And there's another one
that comes from 12 step
recovery, which I
adore, and it's,
I have the right to do less
than is humanly possible.
>> Oh, yes.
Yes, that is very good.
You know, one that is so short
and sweet-- that is Louise Hay.
She ends things
with "All is well."
>> Yes.
>> And that is so easy.
You asked me some
of my favorites,
and I chose three from the book.
I am a powerful spiritual being,
and I choose a healthy body.
That's the one that I
continue on the body.
Because we have to take
care of the body, do we not?
>> Yes.
>> I am powerful and capable.
I create beauty and
love in my life.
I like that one, too.
>> That is beautiful,
and that becomes true.
>> And one I love, I accept
love and support in my life
and share it with others.
>> I'm glad you said that
because that's something that
really was difficult for me, and
it's been a change in my life
that's so important.
When someone would give me
a compliment-- for example,
she would say, I
love your dress.
I would say, oh, I got this
at the bargain basement.
[GROAN]
And what that does-- if
you had said that to me, I
love your dress, and
I just said I got it
at the bargain basement,
what would that do to you?
>> Ah, yeah.
>> It would certainly--
>> It takes that energy down.
>> It takes the energy away.
And the other thing is
you are on notice not
to give me more
compliments because you're
going to get put down.
And you know what I was doing?
I was protecting myself.
This is so sad.
I was keeping the loving energy
away from me by doing that.
>> Well, it's like
accepting a gift,
whether it's a verbal gift
or-- and you say, oh, no, no,
I don't want that or something.
And what we have to
say is thank you.
>> That's exactly right.
>> It is that simple, isn't it?
>> And what I needed to-- what
I had to-- because I'm a tough
case.
I had to say to my
spiritual source,
please help me feel loved
in every cell in my body.
So then I could just accept
that kindness and say thank you.
And one of the things I've
discovered in self care
is that we're so focused on
caring for other people--
>> Oh, yes.
>> --that we're so used to
being all things to everyone
but ourselves.
That it's really-- what I've
gotten in touch with is I just
cannot be present to anyone else
if I'm not present to myself.
>> First you must nurture
yourself in order for you
to have the power to
take care of others too.
>> When I got on the airplane
flying down here from Boston,
they always say this, and it
always strikes me as so strange
but so true.
You know when the
oxygen masks come down?
>> Yes.
>> You know what they say?
They say, don't attempt to
help the person next to you
until you have the mask
securely on your own face.
>> That is profound.
>> Why do we need to
be reminded of that?
>> I want you to
remind us of this.
Celebrate the little
things, or celebrate
the tiny things in life.
Tell me what that philosophy is,
and what do you mean by that?
>> Oh, that's so hard.
I think in terms of giving
and receiving of gifts,
it's so comfortable to
give to someone else,
and it's so uncomfortable
to take for myself.
That when I do something,
I need to honor that.
I need to celebrate that.
So even if it's just something
like buying myself flowers,
that is such a great thing.
And when I encourage
people to do this,
I just say, let's just make
a deal, just one little thing
you'll do for yourself.
The flurry of denial--
I can't do that.
I won't do that.
It's remarkable.
But it starts with just
one small celebration,
and it builds.
>> Now you have recommended
nine books that we could read.
And I ask if you would just give
us a little bit of information
about them.
Now the first three that
we're going to take a look at,
why have you chosen these?
"Addicted to Perfection," and
you can see it on the monitor
there.
Why would you recommend
that particular book?
>> "Addicted to Perfection" is
very powerful because it talks
about the conditioning that
women in particular have
to lose respect for ourselves
and lose touch with our own
voice and to identify instead
with the good, the nice--
it sounds like a soap opera--
the good person
we're supposed to be,
the nice person, the perfect
person we're supposed to be.
And it's very difficult
because it essentially
says that I disenfranchise
myself from my source of power
by trying to be perfect.
>> And you mentioned
that word perfect,
and that's that key word.
We're used to making the
bed perfectly or doing this
perfectly, and
that's where you've
said, again, to forgive
ourselves a little bit.
>> On "Dancing on My Grave,"
now tell me about that,
the message in that.
>> That is so powerful.
A number of us as women
have eating disorders.
And that was written by a person
with an eating disorder who
felt that to be
the best ballerina,
she had to stop eating.
She had to deny
her own sustenance
to be perfect as a dancer.
>> And when we look at that, we
really have to love ourselves
and love ourselves as
we are, love our body.
And we really have to get
past that outside approval
of ourselves with
eating disorders.
>> Listen, I need to because
my natural body is not
a toothpick.
[LAUGHTER]
I don't think it ever was,
except maybe when I was five.
And this sad thing that
we have this image of not
being beautiful
just as we are is
something I work on every day.
But to have a dancer
who didn't feel she
could be accepted unless
she was so svelte.
>> Absolutely.
>> And that is now, people are
really working on this to allow
for dancers to be
all different shapes.
But it's a steady, slow process.
>> Yes, it is.
The third book
that you recommend
is "A History of God."
>> Oh, now that's wonderful.
Aren't we all?
I mean, at the bottom of all of
this, of your work, of my work,
is the question, who is God,
and who does God want me to be?
And when I talk about God, I'm
open to anyone's view of God
or the universe or whatever.
But this book goes
through the history
of how people have seen God
and then allows each one of us
to say, all right, so
someone in a desert society
saw God living in a
wonderful, lush jungle.
What kind of desert am I in,
and what do I see God as,
and what is God truly to me?
>> In the next little series
of books that you recommended,
"Do What You Love and
the Money Will Follow."
>> Absolutely.
>> Isn't that a
wonderful affirmation?
I love that.
And I think that's sort
of self-explanatory.
But what about
"Facing Codependency"?
That's still an issue
with a lot of people.
We've been working on that
as a society collectively,
and that codependency is
really out there, is it not?
>> Codependency means that
I'm out of touch with who I am
because I'm so involved
in meeting someone
else's expectations.
I meet that every day.
>> And it isn't psychobabble.
It's reality.
And it's ruining people's lives.
>> For me, it's
absolute reality.
The Stone Center at
Wellesley College
has a piece of
information I find
fascinating that says that
girls, when we're born,
learn as much about how
to take care of our moms
as our moms are
teaching us how to--
>> Yes.
>> Basically we're focusing on
our mom and giving care as well
as taking care.
>> And who is the perfect
woman, by the way--
the book?
>> That's right.
I have not met her.
[LAUGHTER]
>> Or are you looking
at her in the mirror?
>> You know what?
I think all of us is
exactly perfect as we are.
And that's Pia
Mellody, who wrote
that book says that we need
to befriend our perfectly
imperfect natures.
>> Ah, I like that.
Now in the last group, you
have "Reinventing Work."
And how do we need to look
at our work differently?
>> Matthew Fox, wonderful
writer and speaker,
says that work and spirituality
have been separated off so that
work is just producing money,
or work is just a livelihood.
But work today needs
to have meaning.
And a lot of what
I do is to invite
people to find-- re-find, again,
the meaning in their work.
Because if my work
is fulfilling,
it's spiritually fulfilling.
It's not just
bringing home money.
>> Yes.
>> And people burn out unless
they have that spiritual base.
So what Matthew Fox
is saying is it's
OK to do work that's spiritual.
It's very much like--
what's our friend from PBS?
The man who said
do what you love.
>> Oh, yes.
>> Joseph Campbell.
>> Oh, I love Joseph.
>> Do what you love.
>> Well, I am so pleased that
you have been sharing with us.
And we'll just mention
your last two, "Zen
and the Art of Making a Living"
and "Work with Passion."
But we really are, in this
bottom line, what you're
saying, self care, soul care.
Come back to who you are.
>> Yes.
The thing is,
there's never going
to be another one of
you or me, so why not
accept it and enjoy it?
>> The beautiful, perfect
women that we are.
>> Yes.
>> And each of
you out there too.
That is the exciting
part, that you really
need to love yourself.
What we're going
to do is let you
know how you can be in touch
with Holly Bruno for self care
and soul care.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Really the lesson is
sacrifice need not
be a synonym for kindness.
And that is the bottom line that
Holly wanted to share with us,
coming home to ourselves,
self care, soul care.
I'm so pleased that you
could be with us today,
"Living in Balance."
I'm Shakti-Hill.
And will you please learn to
live in balance in mind, body,
and spirit.
Until next time, may you be
well, happy, and peaceful.
Bye bye.
[MUSIC PLAYING]